README.md, before:

detect_virtualenv
-----------------

Switch virtualenvs as easy as changing directories!

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/dgholz/detect_virtualenv.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/dgholz/detect_virtualenv)

To use this script, `source path/to/detect_virtualenv`. A function called `detect_virtualenv` will be defined. When called, the function will search the current working directory for a folder called `.venv`. If it finds that directory, it will attempt to activate it as a virtualenv. If it does not find it, it will move to the current directory's parent and restart its search (giving up once it has searched `/`).

By default, it will only detect a virtualenv called `.venv`. To detect virtualenvs with other names, set the `MY_VIRTUALENV_NAMES` variable to a colon-separated list of the names you use.

Install from GitHub
===================

```shell
git clone https://github.com/dgholz/detect_virtualenv.git ~/.vendor/detect_virtualenv
source ~/.vendor/detect_virtualenv/detect_virtualenv
```

Example
=======

[![Screencast of simple behaviour](https://dgholz.github.io/detect_virtualenv/detect_virtualenv_simple.gif)]

```shell
export MY_VIRTUALENV_NAMES=virtualenv_run:venv
cd a/dir/with/a/virtualenv
detect_virtualenv # finds and activates a virtualenv called virtualenv_run or venv
cd -
detect_virtualenv # deactivates the previously-found virtualenv
```

Automatically detecting virtualenvs
===================================

Add to `PROMPT_COMMAND`, so `detect_virtualenv` is invoked everytime the prompt is shown:

Override `cd` && `pushd` and `popd`, so `detect_virtualenv` is invoked everytime the directory is changed:

Commit message:

add helper to include detect_virtualenv in PROMPT_COMMAND
and update docs to explain how to use it & not to override cd

README.md, after:

detect_virtualenv
-----------------

Switch virtualenvs as easy as changing directories!

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/dgholz/detect_virtualenv.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/dgholz/detect_virtualenv)

To use this script, `source path/to/detect_virtualenv`. A function called `detect_virtualenv` will be defined. When called, the function will search the current working directory for a folder called `.venv`. If it finds that directory, it will attempt to activate it as a virtualenv. If it does not find it, it will move to the current directory's parent and restart its search (giving up once it has searched `/`).

By default, it will only detect a virtualenv called `.venv`. To detect virtualenvs with other names, set the `MY_VIRTUALENV_NAMES` variable to a colon-separated list of the names you use.

Install from GitHub
===================

```shell
git clone https://github.com/dgholz/detect_virtualenv.git ~/.vendor/detect_virtualenv
source ~/.vendor/detect_virtualenv/detect_virtualenv
```

Example
=======

[![Screencast of simple behaviour](https://dgholz.github.io/detect_virtualenv/detect_virtualenv_simple.gif)]

```shell
export MY_VIRTUALENV_NAMES=virtualenv_run:venv
cd a/dir/with/a/virtualenv
detect_virtualenv # finds and activates a virtualenv called virtualenv_run or venv
cd -
detect_virtualenv # deactivates the previously-found virtualenv
```

Automatically detecting virtualenvs
===================================

You can configure your shell to automatically execute `detect_virtualenv`.

### Add to `PROMPT_COMMAND`, so `detect_virtualenv` is invoked everytime the prompt is shown

`detect_virtualenv` provides a helper function, which is automatically run if it is sourced with `on_prompt` as the first argument:
```shell
. path/to/detect_virtualenv on_prompt
```
It will avoid adding to `PROMPT_COMMAND` if it is already present.

### Override `cd`, `pushd`, and `popd`, so `detect_virtualenv` is invoked everytime the directory is changed:

Not recommended, as other tools may override `cd` et al. e.g. `rvm`. Only use if you are certain no other part of your `~/.bashrc` changes these builtins:
```shell
. path/to/detect_virtualenv
function cd()    { builtin cd    "$@" && detect_virtualenv }
function pushd() { builtin pushd "$@" && detect_virtualenv }
function popd()  { builtin popd  "$@" && detect_virtualenv }
```
